## MoneyTracker

**MoneyTracker** is a web browser based application that creates a database for financial transactions related to income or expenses.  It is Windows based and assumes that Microsoft .NET Framework 4.7.1 or greater is installed.  Download and extract the `MoneyTracker-master` zip file from the [MoneyTracker repository](https://github.com/deandevl/MoneyTracker) . Locate and run the `setup.exe` file.  

**MoneyTracker** comes with a demo database named `farm.db` under **MoneyTracker's** root directory.  To test your **MoneyTracker** installation, copy this database to your `c:\temp` folder or a folder where you have `full control` security.  To start the local server, run the `MoneyTrackerApp.exe` executable.  You should find an icon for **MoneyTracker** on either your desktop or start menu. Running  `MoneyTrackerApp.exe` starts a local server from a command prompt window.  You can press any key to quit the server.  From either a Chrome or Firefox browser enter `localhost:8080` for the address url.  The **MoneyTracke**r's main page should then be rendered.

On the left corner of the main page is a button for selecting the folder where you will read database files.  When the button is clicked a Windows open directory dialog will appear asking you to select a directory. Select the `c:\temp`folder that we mentioned above.  To the far right of the button is an editable combo box where **MoneyTracker** has added the `farm.db` database as one of the selections in the `c:\temp` directory.  Select this database and the table on the main page will fill up with transactions.  Note that `farm.db` is a demo database and can be deleted via Windows Explorer at any time.  To create a new database, simply enter a new name in the editable combo box and click the Enter key.  The name can be entered with or without the `.db` extension.  **MoneyTracker** will create your new database in  the selected `c:\temp` directory when you press the Enter key.

To start adding transactions, toward the bottom of the main page is a row of input boxes for `Type` (combo box for either income or expense), `Category` (another editable combo box where you can make up a category), `date`, `amount` (without the dollar sign), `source`, and `description`.  After completing the inputs, click the Add button and the transaction will be added to the database and will appear as a row in the table above the inputs.

Clicking a row in the table will fill the input boxes with the selected row.  From here you can update,  delete, or cancel your input changes for the row and the database.  The Update, Delete, and Cancel buttons when clicked refreshes both the database and the table.

Along the top of the main page are three combo boxes labelled Type, Category, and Year.  By making selections from the combos and clicking the Filter Table button you can filter the database transactions and refresh the table for specific type, category, or year.  

At the bottom right corner is a button labelled Excel Sheet.  If you have Microsoft Office 2013 Excel installed on you system then clicking the button will create an Excel sheet of what's displayed on the table along with summaries for income and expense.